Propose module user interface (#2789)
kyma-project/cli: docs/contributor/ADR/003-module-user-interface.md

# Output Error Format

Creation date: 2025.10.11

## Introduction

> In this ADR I would propose new api for most basic functionalities in the `kyma module` commands group (mostly around handling community modules). This ADR is build based in the following [issue](https://github.com/kyma-project/cli/issues/2765) and its goal is to keep all most important informations in one place.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this ADR, I propose a new API for the most basic functionalities in the `kyma module` commands group (mostly around handling community modules). This ADR is built based on the following [issue](https://github.com/kyma-project/cli/issues/2765) and its goal is to keep all important information in one place.
```

## Description

> In the latest release (`3.2.0`), operations on community modules are not intuitive - for example to to delete a module, the user should first list installed modules to figure out which are installed, then print the catalog to get the origin of the module, and then use this origin to remove the community module. The flow:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the latest release (`3.2.0`), operations on community modules are not intuitive. For example, to delete a module, the user must first list the installed modules, then print the catalog to get the origin of the module, and then use this origin to remove the community module. The flow:
```

    $ kyma module catalog
    
    MODULE                  AVAILABLE VERSIONS
    api-gateway             3.3.0(regular), 3.4.1(fast)
    application-connector   1.1.17(fast), 1.1.17-experimental(experimental)
    btp-operator            1.2.20(regular), 1.2.22(fast)
    cap-operator            0.21.0(fast)
    cfapi                   0.3.1(experimental)
    cloud-manager           1.6.1(experimental)
    connectivity-proxy      1.1.2(fast), 1.1.2-experimental(experimental)
    docker-registry         0.10.0(experimental)
    eventing                1.4.0(fast)
    istio                   1.23.1(regular), 1.23.2(fast), 1.23.2-experimental(experimental)
    keda                    1.8.2(regular), 1.9.0(fast)
    nats                    1.2.2(experimental)
    serverless              1.8.4(regular), 1.9.1(experimental)
    telemetry               1.52.0(regular), 1.53.0(fast), 1.53.0-experimental(experimental)
    transparent-proxy       1.9.0(fast)
    ztis-agent              0.20.0-experimental(experimental)
    
    COMMUNITY MODULE          AVAILABLE VERSIONS
    default/cap-operator      0.20.1
    default/docker-registry   0.10.0
    default/registry-proxy    0.14.0
    ```

> - Remote catalog should not be a part of the default output of the `module catalog` command. Instead of that, to display modules available to pull, the user should add the `--remote` or `--remote=<URL>` flag.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Remote catalog should not be a part of the default output of the `module catalog` command. Instead, to display modules available to pull, the user should add the `--remote` or `--remote=<URL>` flag.
```

    
    A few community module versions are available on the cluster: [0.9.0, 0.10.0]. Choosing the latest: 0.10.0.
    
    The community module docker-registry in version 0.10.0 is installed
    ```

- Different output formats (other than the table) should combine modules and community modules into one object to allow external tools like `jq` or `yq` to go through this output:

    ```bash
    $ kyma module catalog -ojson
    
    {
      "modules": [
        ...
      ],
      "communityModules": [
        ...
      ]
    }
    ```

## Example flow

describe catalog->pull->add->pull new->upgrade->delete flow

```bash
# FInd available module in remote catalog
$ kyma module catalog --remote

MODULE            AVAILABLE VERSIONS
cap-operator      0.20.1
docker-registry   0.10.0
registry-proxy    0.14.0

# Pull module
$ kyma module pull docker-registry --namespace default

...

# Add module
$ kyma module add default/docker-registry --auto-approve

Warning:
  You are about to install a community module.
  Community modules are not officially supported and come with no binding Service Level Agreement (SLA).

The community module docker-registry in version 0.9.0 is installed

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

##########################
# some time later when new version of the community docker-registry is out

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
